Please complete one copy of this form for each paper that you are
given to review.

Authors will not know through this process who reviewed any
submission; it is recommended that this remain anonymous.

Each review form should be returned as a plain text file with the file
name:
SURNAME-FIRSTNAME-STUDENTNUMBER-CS7IS4-REVIEW-GROUPn.txt
where n in "GROUPn" is replaced by the cardinal number corresponding
to that of the group who submitted the article to review, and where
STUDENTNUMBER and SURNAME are that of the *reviewer*.

If the SURNAME is more than one name, insert a hyphen between each.

These should be aggregated into a zip file and uploaded via Blackboard,
adhering to the naming conventions described below for the individual
files.  The zip file should be named using the convention:
SURNAME-FIRSTNAME-STUDENTNUMBER-CS7IS4-PEER-REVIEWS.zip
as described in the first set of lecture notes.

The student number and surname will be removed from the files that
are returned to authors.

For each question where a scale is used, the intended scale is from 1
to 5, where 5 is the score for the best possible contribution and 1 is
the score for work that is at the opposite end of the spectrum.  For
each category of rating, justify your rating and provide feedback on
how the work could be improved.

If a question addresses a section of the paper for which the current
draft has no text or only a place-holder section heading, you may
provide the rating "0" and comment accordingly.

If any item is such that you feel you do not understand it, then use
your comments for the item to indicate how you made sense of the item
and provide a rating and constructive commentary to the authors in
relation of your understanding of the question (noting that if your
understanding of the item makes it identical to another item, then it
is best to apply synonymy avoidance to arrive at a distinct
understanding of the item rather than evaluating the paper with
respect to the same question twice).

Reviews will be marked on the basis of the quality of feedback
provided.


0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.
TITLE: A Paralinguistic Analysis of Emojis and Emoticons
AUTHORS: Siddhesh Suresh Bangar, Shaunak Pedgaonkar, Eamon Phelan, Parthiban Thandapani, Jiaxuan Xie, Pragati Aboti

1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

    Rating: 3
    
    Comments:

    I feel the authors are engaged in an 'Analysis of Paralinguistics' rather
    than a 'Paralinguistic Analysis'. In fact, the word Paralinguistic in the
    title overpromises since the study is only of emojis and emoticons, not any
    other sorts of paralinguistic expression.

    The title indicates that emojis and emoticons are involved, but gives no
    clues about what this study contributes relative to other studies of emojis
    and emoticons.

2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
    work and indicate the main hypotheses?

    Rating: 3
    
    Comments:
    
    Hypotheses are not stated clearly, rather approaches and topics of study
    are mentioned. E.g. the 'syntactic and semantic dimensions' of emojis are
    mentioned, but no hypotheses about syntactic or semantic dimensions.
    
    There is a reference to 'semantic coherence', which is not mentioned again
    in the paper. The authors should either expand on this topic or remove
    it from the abstract.


3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

    Rating: 0
    
    Comments: n/a

4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

    Rating: 4
    
    Comments:

    The Introduction section is well written and motivates interesting
    questions. It could perhaps benefit from a treatment of the authors'
    conceptual framework for thinking about what does and does not constitute
    language. In particular, emoticons and emojis are considered to be
    paralinguistic content on the one hand, but also to exhibit a syntax and
    semantics. Are the authors satisified that non-linguistic (paralinguistic)
    expressions may have a syntax and semantics? Is this an oxymoron?

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

    Rating: 3
    
    Comments:

    Details of the framework proposed by Yang et al. (2021) would be
    beneficial, especially if the authors are proposing to use that framework in
    the conception of their methodology. If not, why is the study mentioned?

    Subsection 2.2 focuses on text similarity. The Jaccard and cosine
    similarities are mentioned, but there is no discussion of how the vectors
    used in Jaccard and cosine similarity might be generated. Details on this
    aspect of the conceptual framework would be beneficial, e.g. is it proposed
    that vector representations be generated in a supervised or unsupervised
    fashion?

    There appears to be no intention on the part of the authors to identify
    questions about text-similarity analysis itself left open in the literature,
    rather they are proposing to use existing analysis methods, which is
    reasonable, but perhaps the discussion belongs in the Methods section.

    It is not entirely clear that the research questions are left open by prior
    literature. In particular, the authors should describp the questions left
    open by Bai et al. (2019). In the Research Questions section the authors
    state a gap exists, but it would be more convincing if the gap were
    revealed iteratively through a thorough reveiw of the relevant literature.

6)  Does the detailed statement of the research question and
    hypotheses make clear how the quantities used to measure texts
    are adequate as measures of the theoretical constructs
    explored?
    

    Rating: 2
    
    Comments:
    
    Subsection 3.1 identifies a supposed gap in the literature in terms of
    'large scale algorithmic analysis'. I feel this direction focuses
    excessively on the method of analysis rather than a question relating
    textual quantities to other theoretical constructs of interest.
    
    I think it's appropriate to think of emojis as part of the text (even if
    not part of the language), and therefore the proposed question does not
    seek to relate properties of the texts to qualities and quantities outside
    the text. For example the research question could have focused on affect,
    as promised in the introduction, but instead seems to be focused on
    statistics relating to the distribution of emojis in texts. As such there
    seem to be no 'theoretical constructs' proposed.
    
    Another direction could be to propose Phrase Constituency Grammar rules
    including emojis, and to test whether or to what degree actual texts adhere
    to the grammar. For instance, the sequence "I went <emoji> to the shops"
    might be prohibited by the PCG, while "I went to the shops <emoji>" might
    be accepted.

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required for text categories and what sources will be adopted for
    any separate categories of information in support of answering the
    research questions?

    Rating: 3
    
    Comments:
    
    Various datasets are mentioned, but the descriptions lack detail (How
    many samples? How many subjects? etc.) and it
    would beneficial to have greater clarity on exactly which datasets will be
    used.
    
    As mentioned above, the authors have not settled on the separate qualities
    they intend to study, and as such have not identified sources.

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

    Rating: 2
    
    Comments:

    The section entitled Text Similarity Approach mentions various tools and
    approaches that could be applicable to processing the data set, but section
    is incongruent with description of the datasets, and it is not clear
    exactly what the authors intend to do.
    
    The "Parts of Speech Approach" section mentions a new dataset (Vogel and
    Janssen, 2009) which should have been described in the "Datasets" section.
    
    It's not clear what is meant by "sentence, chunk, and parts-of-speech
    data", some examples would be beneficial. Does the program produce
    syntactic trees or just tokenizations?
    
    It's not clear why regular expressions are needed to locate emojis. Perhaps
    the authors intend to find sequences of emojis? What does the resulting
    processed data look like?

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

    Rating: 1
    
    Comments:
    
    Hypotheses are not clearly stated, and there is no description of what
    would constitute falsification of hypotheses.

10) Are the research methods proposed appropriate to the question addressed?

    Rating: 2
    
    Comments:
    
    The research methods may be appropriate to the proposed question (about the
    distributions of emojis in texts) but there is insufficient detail in the
    description of methods. Which quantities, exactly, will be gathered, which
    variables will be compared, and how?
    
    But before developing the research methods further the authors should
    develop research questions and hypotheses that relate theoretical
    constructs to textual quantities.

11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

    Rating: 1
    
    Comments:
    
    It's not clear whether a new dataset will by synthesised.

12) Are results clearly provided?

    Rating: 0
    
    Comments: n/a

13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

    Rating: 0
    
    Comments: n/a

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

    Rating: 0
    
    Comments: n/a

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

    Rating: 0
    
    Comments: n/a

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    the printed editions works cited?

    Rating: 4

    Comments:

    US should be capicalised in "Sender-intended functions of emojis in us
    messaging".

    Some of the numbers used in the references are unconventional/unexplained,
    e.g. e0221297 (Gesselman et al 2019), e0144296 (Kralj et al 2015). These
    numbers are sometimes mistakenly added in Google Scholar's bibtex export
    function.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

    Rating: 3
    
    Comments:

    The Abstract and Introduction are ell written with a consistent scholarly
    style, but other sections are more erratic.

    In the abstract it is stated that the "study contributes nuanced insights",
    which is sort a self-compliment. The discussion of contributions should be
    more specific, allowing the reader to decide whether there are any nuanced
    insights.

    In Subseciton 2.3 there is some confusion in the sentence beginning "Text
    sentiment identification...", where it is perhaps being stated that
    statistical models `comprehend context'. I think the authors should be
    careful about such personification of models and algorithms.

    References in the style of 'by Zainuddin and Selamat (2014)' could be
    simplified to just '(Zainuddin and Selamat 2014)'.

    Some typos, e.g:
       "a great deal of promise because **to** methods like..."
       "similarity to training data.Neel et al.(2023)" -- missing space,
                 ref should be in parens

    Some excessive exaggeration, e.g:
       "The use of incredibly sophisticated machine learning..."
       "...thereby furnishing invaluable insights into the multifaceted..."

18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

    Rating: 4
    
    Comments:
    
    There's some dissonance between the statement "All authors contributed
    equally to every section of the project" and the detailed descriptions
    of individual cotributions. For instance some members are
    stated to have contributed to writing only one section. Perhaps "section"
    is meant more to mean 'aspect' or 'task' than section of the paper.

19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

    Rating: 4
    
    Comments:
    
    Some more specificity on who contributed which ideas, who drafted which
    sections, who edited which sections, etc. would make the description of
    contributions clearer and more concrete. A percentage estimate of work is
    not provided.

20) Are there qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?  Comment on what qualities those are.


    Rating: 2
    
    Comments:

    The topic of emoticon and emoji distributions in texts (conceptualised
    both in terms of syntax and distributional statistics)
    is a red thread running
    through the entire discussion (abstract, introduction, questions, methods)
    and offering some coherence.

21) Are there qualities of this paper you would argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?  Comment on what qualities those are.

    Rating: 2
    
    Comments:

    There is incoherence between the sections, questions are raised in the
    abstract and introduction that are not properly addressed later.
    
    Much of the discussion, especially of related work, is arguably superfluous
    and does not contribute to conceptualising and tackling the question at
    hand.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

    Rating: 2
    
    Comments:
    
    The abstract and introduction have great merit, but the quality of the
    paper tapers off as it progresses. If the rest of the paper can be elevated
    to the quality of the introductory sections, while maintaining coherence,
    the paper will be a a good candidate for a best paper prize.
